feat(curriculum): add binary search workshop (#60727)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/workshop-binary-search/683ec95f2f8781355556ff83.md

---
id: 683ec95f2f8781355556ff83
title: Step 11
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-11
---

# --description--

You can see that the first call returns `[3]`. That's because `3` is the middle value in `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`.

> On the other hand, the second call returns `This shows because the value is farther than the middle value to the right or left`. This happens because, after checking the middle value, the loop currently lacks the logic to narrow the search range by updating the `low` or `high` variables. It only acts as a single midpoint check and then finishes without further searching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, the second call returns an empty list. This happens because, after checking the middle value, the loop currently lacks the logic to narrow the search range by updating the `low` or `high` variables. It only acts as a single midpoint check and then finishes without further searching.
```

To allow the binary search to continue narrowing its search, add an `elif` block that checks if `value` is greater than `value_at_middle`. Add the `pass` keyword inside the `elif` for now.

# --hints--

You should add an `elif` block for when `value` is greater than `value_at_middle`.

```js
({ test: () => runPython(`
_cond = _Node(_code).find_function("binary_search").find_whiles()[0].find_ifs()[0].find_conditions()[1]
assert _cond.is_equivalent("value > value_at_middle") or _cond.is_equivalent("value_at_middle < value")
`) })
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
def binary_search(search_list, value):
    path_to_target = []
    low = 0
    high = len(search_list) - 1
    
    while low <= high:
        mid = (low + high) // 2
        value_at_middle = search_list[mid]
        path_to_target.append(value_at_middle)

--fcc-editable-region--
        if value == value_at_middle:
            return path_to_target

--fcc-editable-region--          
        break

>     return "This shows because the value is farther than the middle value to the right or left"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return 'This shows because the value is farther than the middle value to the right or left'
```

---
id: 683ec95f2f8781355556ff83
title: Step 11
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-11
---

# --description--

You can see that the first call returns `[3]`. That's because `3` is the middle value in `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`.

On the other hand, the second call returns `'This shows because the value is farther than the middle value to the right or left'`. This happens because, after checking the middle value, the loop currently lacks the logic to narrow the search range by updating the `low` or `high` variables. It only acts as a single midpoint check and then finishes without further searching.

To allow the binary search to continue narrowing its search, add an `elif` block that checks if `value` is greater than `value_at_middle`. Add the `pass` keyword inside the `elif` for now.

# --hints--

> You should add an `elif` with the condition `value > value_at_middle`. Don't forget to add the `pass` keyword into the `elif` block.
> 
> ```js
> ({
>     test: () =>
>         assert(
>             runPython(
>                 `_Node(_code).find_function("binary_search").find_whiles()[0].find_ifs()[0].is_equivalent("if value == value_at_middle:\\n    return path_to_target\\nelif value > value_at_middle:\\n    pass")`
>             )
>         )
> })
> ```

Reviewer: Allowing both solutions and not checking `pass`.
````suggestion
You should add an `elif` block for when `value` is greater than `value_at_middle`.

```js
({ test: () => runPython(`
_cond = _Node(_code).find_function("binary_search").find_whiles()[0].find_ifs()[0].find_conditions()[1]
assert _cond.is_equivalent("value > value_at_middle") or _cond.is_equivalent("value_at_middle < value")
`) })
```
````

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
def binary_search(search_list, value):
    path_to_target = []
    low = 0
    high = len(search_list) - 1
    
    while low <= high:
        mid = (low + high) // 2
        value_at_middle = search_list[mid]
        path_to_target.append(value_at_middle)

>         if value == value_at_middle:
>             return path_to_target
> --fcc-editable-region--

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--fcc-editable-region--
        if value == value_at_middle:
            return path_to_target
```
